The next mode is a line mode which is used for connections such as the console connection or auxilary
connection.
So in other words when you want to configure options on the console port you would go to a line console
mode or if you wanted to configure the options on the exhilarate port where you may connect a modem
as an example you would go to line orc's port.
You also configure Viti why ports in line mode.
So you would for example type line Viti Y is 0 2 4 to configure the first five Viti y lines on a road
it was switch evictee y ports are used for telnet or S-sh connections to Erato will switch.
In this example I'm in interface mode.
So I'm going to type exit to go to global config mode so that I can then go to line mode.
Now please note you don't have to type exit.
You can jump directly from interface mode to line mode as an example.
So you can go from one mode to another mode directly.
But for this example we'll go to the global configuration mode so that you can see the hierarchy of
options available through the Cisco IOS and in global configuration mode.
I can type a line console's 0 which takes me to a line console's 0 which is used for configuring the
console port on the router.
I could enter the command password Cisco as an example online console's 0.
What this means is that when I connect to the console of the router I'll be required to enter this password
before I gain access to user mode.
So let's test this.
I'm going to type control Zayde to take me back to privileged mode and then type exit to exit out of
the Rodda.
So I'm now connected to the console and I can press enter to access the router.
Now notice it didn't ask me for a password and it's important that you remember this.
Firstly it's important to test any changes that you've made.
But secondly the reason why I wasn't asked for a password is I have to type an additional command on
the line console.
So if I go back to line console I need to type the command log in.
Which means that when I log into the console I'll be required to enter the password of Cisco.
So to test this controls it to get back to privilege mode top exit to exit the router.
And now notice when I hit Enter I'm required to enter the password that I created on the line.
So just to reiterate this I put both a password and the logging command on the line console.
Now the order of those two commands doesn't matter.
You could have either put a plug in first or password first.
As long as both the commands are typed on the line console you will be required to enter a password
when you connect to the console.
You know a lot of Cisco material they'll tell you to put the log in command first and then the password
command.
That's fine.
But in reality it doesn't matter either will work try it on a live.
Cisco Rado will switch to make sure for yourself you can enable routing protocols on a Rato or three
switch by going to router mode and various routing protocols or supported the CCMA course focuses mainly
on open shortest path first always P.F. and enhanced interior gateway writing protocol all GAAP.
There are others including BGP and Repp.
So you need to go to a global configuration mode and then you type a router and specify a writing protocol
so you could type road trip as an example.
That would take me to the writing process on this route 9 config Rodda mode.
You would be able to configure various parameters for your writing protocol as an example the network
command is used to enable the writing process on various interfaces on the router.
When using a protocol such as REPP SPF or Joe P..
At this point don't worry too much about Rato rep configuration.
We'll be discussing OSPF and aiight GOP in other videos.
For now just notice that when I use the question mark I see commands that are valid or relevant for
this mode and specifically for this routing protocol.